>> Jen Kramer: Now that we have our mobile
layout complete for the bio section of our
website, let's add a media query and
make this work better for desktop.
So how many media queries do you need?
Anybody have any idea?
How many media queries should we add?
>> Speaker 2: Maybe one for now.
>> Jen Kramer: One for now?
Sure, we'll add one for
now, the right answer is,
however many media queries it
takes to make it look good.
Your graphic designer is probably going
to tell you exactly how many that is.
They may be in different places, but in
this particular case, we're gonna put in
our media query about 750px, and we're
going to change our layout at that point.
So, I'm currently, once again,
look for the little number down at
the bottom of your screen here in CodePen
to tell you the size of your screen.
And I am going to move mine to
just a little bit more than 750px.
This is your number one trip-up
point as you're working in CodePen.
You start writing code and
it doesn't work.
That's because your display window
is smaller than your media query.
Of course, it doesn't work, so
I like to set this first so
that my code will work once I type it in.
And I'm gonna scroll down here to
the bottom and I will add my media query.
And so
my media query is going to be @media and
I'm going to say my min-width is 750px,
minimum width cuz we're
working on mobile first.
So we wanna work with minimum width
media queries, our previous styles,
everything we've written from line 96 and
going up.
All of that will carry
into our media queries,
these will just be our overwrites.
So here what I will do is say for
my .wrapper style,
all right, I'd like a little
bit more padding on this,
especially to get it off
the top of the page.
So maybe I'll say padding of 5rem.
We had 1rem before on mobile so
now I'm gonna give myself a bit more space
cuz I'm on a desktop configuration here,
and then I'm gonna make some
changes to my main article.
Remember, this is what we're
working with now for our design.
We need to have how many columns of stuff?
>> Speaker 3: 2 hind that.
>> Jen Kramer: Now we
need 2 columns of stuff.
So before we had 1 column with
everything stacked on top of each other,
we need to go to 2 columns.
So I'm going to say for my main article,
we are going to go to our
grid template columns.
1fr, 1fr or repeat 2 column 1fr,
however you wanna type it,
this is shorter for
just 2 columns, all right.
And then maybe I will, notice that
these are now top aligned here, okay.
Maybe I want those
aligned on their centers,
so align-items center.
And then my text, of course,
is center aligned,
so I wanna overwrite that text-align left.
All right, and then for
the image itself looks a little bit odd,
kind of cut off that way.
Let us turn all of the things that
we did to it off in order to
show us the full picture now.
So we can make changes
here to .main-article img,
so I'm going to say max-height of 400px.
This will prevent our image
from getting overly large.
So we'll just go by height,
the width will scale proportionately.
For my margin, I wanna push this
all the way over to the right.
So what I can say is 0, 0, 0, auto.
And what this will do,
remember those four numbers are top,
right, bottom, and left.
So we're gonna have no margin on all
of those until we get to the left side.
The left side is auto that will push
it all the way over to the right.
It won't really show so much at 750px.
As the screen gets bigger, you may
see it push over more to the right.
And again, on your larger screens at home,
as you're following along,
you may see this a bit more dramatically
than we do here on my smaller screen.
Okay, and
then to turn off the other things
that we did to this picture, to crop it,
we'll say our object-fit is none and
our object-position is none.
And our height is auto,
and our width is auto,
and our overflow is auto, [LAUGH].
So those are all the ways that you turn
off all of the things that you set before
in order to get your basic image back.
For object-fit and object-position,
they are not auto,
you can go look them up on MDN.
Auto is not a valuable or a valid
value for those particular properties.
You need to use the word none, and
then auto works for everything else.
Notice that you might have a max
height of 400px, but a height of auto,
how do those two things work together?
Anyone have any ideas?
Does that look weird to you?
Okay, so what we're saying is that the
height, it can be automatically adjusting.
All right, especially as we get smaller
and I can't make this much smaller.
You can kind of see she's getting cut off,
like her hands, they are cut off,
the laptop is cut off, right?
But as the screen gets bigger,
there is a maximum point, and
she doesn't get any bigger after that,
all right.
So that's the point of setting
this up that way, all right, so
she can get proportionately
a little bit smaller and
maybe cut off from
the bottom a little bit.
So that's what that little
bit of code is doing.
All right, and then the last thing that
we need to adjust here are our icons and
currently those are set to
justify content center.
So we're going to just change or
justify content to flex-start, and
that should push them over to the left,
and they should be lined up pretty well.
All right, so a couple of other tiny
little things that we can do here.
We're here at the start of my media query.
Currently, my font size is 1rem.
We set that back up at the beginning
of our style sheet up here and
the body style somewhere here in
the beginning to our base font size.
And our font size is 1rem.
I would like my font size to be
generally bigger when I go to desktop.
So here's one of the cool things that
we can do with our variables inside
of a media query.
We don't need to go back and
make our body style.
We don't need to do this.
So, now my body style will be font-size,
whatever, we don't need to do this.
And what we can do instead is simply say,
root style,
we're going to instead
change our base font-size.
So we're just changing
the value of the variable,
you're probably familiar with this,
to 1.1125rem,
and that should scale
everything proportionately.
So you see how everything on that
page scaled up just a tiny bit.
The h2 scaled up a little bit,
the h1 scaled up a little bit,
the paragraph scaled up a little bit.
When you go back to your mobile dimension,
everything scales down proportionately
to a slightly smaller size.
How cool is that?
Pretty fun and amazing, right?
Very cool.
Very cool, very cool.
And then the last thing I'm going to do,
because I'm super picky,
is my h1 here.
>> Jen Kramer: All right, so if you take
a look here at the left side of the F in
front going down to the B,
they don't quite line up in a perfectly
straight line and the graphic
designer is screaming at me, right?
We've all been there.
So we can add this here
in our CSS as well.
We could just say our margin-left is -3px,
and
that will pull this over just
the tiniest little bit, [LAUGH].
And now we have a nice
straight left side margin,
and our graphics designer is much happier.